---
title: "Tutorial: Caching"
layout: page
weight: 45
tags:
  - docker
  - tutorial
categories:
  - docker
---

* include a table of contents
{:toc}

<div class="info-block">
To follow this tutorial on your own computer, please [install the `jet` CLI locally first]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url docker/jet/2015-05-25-installation %}).
</div>

## Using Caching

As a way to speed up your build pipelines, Codeship supports remote caching. This means we'll push your final, built image out to your image repository with a special tag: `codeship-cache-$BRANCH`. When using caching, the image push is automatic - there is no need to add a separate push step later in your pipeline.

For future builds, we'll compare the cached image with your new build's Dockerfile to determine whether there were any changes that invalidate the cache. Once we encounter a change, we will rebuild every remaining layer following the detected change in your Dockerfile. [Read more about optimizing your Dockerfile for caching.](#optimizing-your-build-to-use-the-docker-image-cache)

To use caching on a particular service, you must add a `cached` declaration to your services description:

```yml
app:
  build:
    image: codeship/foo
    path: testpath
    dockerfile_path: Dockerfile.foo
  cached: true
  encrypted_dockercfg_path: dockercfg.encrypted  
```

Once your cache is working, you should see something like this in your build logs:

```
2016-04-29 23:38:27 Step 2 : RUN mkdir /app
2016-04-29 23:38:27  ---> Using cache
2016-04-29 23:38:27  ---> 283438c51d72
2016-04-29 23:38:27 Step 3 : WORKDIR /app
2016-04-29 23:38:27  ---> Using cache
```

## Configuring Your Image Repository Credentials

To use caching, we'll need to have access to your Docker image repository so that we can push up the image with our cache tag.

In your Codeship-Services.yml, the `encrypted_dockercfg_path` directive is the recommended way to make sure we have the access we need to push the image up. [You can learn more about providing your repository credentials here.](https://codeship.com/documentation/docker/docker-push/)

## Using The Remote Cache Locally

By default, caching does not apply to local builds using `jet steps`. If you want to use the remote cache when running a build locally, there are a few additional flags you'll want to set: `jet steps --remote-cache=true --ci-branch=$BRANCH --push=true`

## Caching With ECR

To use remote caching with Amazon's ECR registry, you will need to configure the [ECR credential generator.](https://github.com/codeship-library/aws-ecr-dockercfg-generator).

The `dockercfg_service` directive will need to be attached to the service you are caching in your `codeship-services.yml` file, and authentication for the cached image push is distinct from the authentication for any image push step defined in your `codeship-steps.yml` file.

## Optimizing Your Build To Use The Docker Image Cache

In order to fully utilize the caching provided by Codeship, you should optimize your Docker builds to take advantage of the Docker image cache. Here is a simple guide to optimizing your build:

### 1. Order your Dockerfile

You should move all RUN steps which are not dependent on added files up to the top of your Dockerfile. This should include any package installation, directory creation, or downloads. This way the image cache for these steps will not be invalidated when an added file is changed.

### 2. Separate dependent RUNs

Any further RUN commands, which are dependent upon added files, should be run ONLY after adding those specific files required. A great example of this doing a bundle install for a Ruby app. By adding ONLY the Gemfile and Gemfile.lock first, and running a bundle install, the image cache for the bundle install remains valid regardless of any changes across the entire project unless the Gemfile.lock itself is changed.

The various RUN commands should also be ordered according to frequency of invalidation. Any RUN commands which are dependent on files whose contents frequently change should be moved to the bottom of the file. This way they are unlikely to invalidate a more stable cached image as a side effect. A good tie breaker for this situation would also be that whichever image cache is larger should be placed higher in the file.

### 3. Use a strict .dockerignore file

The more files which get added to the Docker image during an ADD or COPY, the higher the chance that the image cached will be invalidated despite the functionality of the image remaining the same. To reduce the chances of this happening, strip down the number of files being added to the image to the bare essentials. Ignore any temporary files, logs, development files and documentation, especially `.git`. A good rule of thumb for this process is if the resulting image will not utilize a file or folder, add it to the dockerignore.

As always, feel free to contact [support@codeship.com](mailto:support@codeship.com) if you have any questions.
